# Solving Occlusion

## Instructions

### 1. Prerequisites
This framework requires **Python 3.9.2**. The generation of synthetic datasets requires an Ubuntu environment. 

**Note:** To use efficient neural network training, CUDA 11.* needs to be installed and available.

It is recommended to use a package manager like Conda (https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/) to manage the Python version 
and all required Python packages.

### 2. Initialisation of git submodule
After setting the environment variable `$WORKSPACE` to a folder you want to work in, you should clone this repo:
```
git clone https://github.com/mstoelzle/solving occlusion $WORKSPACE/solving-occlusion && cd $WORKSPACE/solving-occlusion
```

All git submodules need to be initialized and updated:
```
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

### 3. Installation:
#### 3.0 Install C++ dependencies
Please install the following C++ dependencies to use this repo:

```bash
conda install cmake pybind11 eigen
```
or alternatively on macOS with homebrew:
```bash
brew install cmake pybind11 eigen
```
or on Ubuntu with:
```bash
sudo apt install cmake python-pybind11 libeigen3-dev
```

On Windows we need to additionally install Visual Studio C++ to build Python packages and subsequently install dlib via pip:
```
pip install dlib
```


#### 3.1 Install all required Conda and PIP packages
If we want to leverage a NVIDIA GPU to train and infer the neural network, we need to install PyTorch first using conda:
```
conda install pytorch=1.8 torchvision=0.9 torchaudio=0.8 cudatoolkit=11.1 -c pytorch -c conda-forge
```

The required Python packages can be installed as follows (within the Conda environment) in the root directory:
```
pip install -r ${WORKSPACE}/solving-occlusion/requirements.txt --user
```

#### 3.2 Install ROS
We rely on ROS Noetic to read datasets stored in rosbags and process them in our DatasetGeneration component.

On Ubuntu this can be done with:
```
sudo apt install ros-noetic-ros-base ros-noetic-grid-map
```

or on macOS with (requires Python 3.6.* or 3.8.* for now):
```
conda install -c robostack ros-noetic-ros-base ros-noetic-grid-map
```

#### 3.3 Install the TerrainDataGenerator
**System requirements:** Ubuntu >= 16.04, g++ / gcc >= 6, CMake >= 3.10, CPU with support for avx2 instructions (produced within last 6 years)

First, please install RaiSim including its plugins raisimLib and raisimOgre: https://raisim.com/sections/Installation.html. Please acquire the appropriate license.

Initialise the raisim build directory: `export LOCAL_INSTALL=$WORKSPACE/raisim_build && mkdir $LOCAL_INSTALL`

As the generation of a synthetic dataset relies on the TerrainDataGenerator by Takahiro Miki,
the following installation instruction need to be followed recursively after the `src/dataset_generation/synthetic_terrain_data_generator` git submodule is initialised:
https://bitbucket.org/tamiki/terrain_data_generator

After following the installation instructions, the build directory needs to be added to the CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH:
```
export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH:$LOCAL_INSTALL
```

Additionally, the `terrain_data_generator` submodule has a requirement on OpenCV:
```
sudo apt-get install libopencv-dev
```

Finally, install the `terrain_data_generator` package:
```
pip install --user -e "${WORKSPACE}/solving-occlusion/src/dataset_generation/synthetic_terrain_data_generator"
```

#### 3.4 Install PyPatchMatch
We use the PatchMatch [[1]](#1) algorithm as a (traditional) baseline for in-painting of the occluded elevation maps.

If this baseline is specified for use in the config, the following installation steps to use the dependency [PyPatchMatch](https://github.com/vacancy/PyPatchMatch) need to be taken:

```
cd "${WORKSPACE}/solving-occlusion/src/learning/models/baseline/py_patch_match" && make
```

#### 3.5 Install Traversability module
We first need to install the dependencies CMake, OpenCV and PCL. On macOS:
```
brew install cmake opencv pcl eigen
```

Subsequently, we can install the Python wrapper for the rock `perception-traversability` component with:
```
pip install git+https://github.com/esa-prl/perception-traversability-pybind.git
```

#### 3.6 Install rock-tools-pocolog_pybind module
We rely on custom pocolog Python bindings to read pocolog logs containing the elevation maps generated by the GA Slam 
method on the Tenerife dataset (see [Tenerife Dataset](#tenerife-dataset)).
We rely on an existing [Rock](https://www.rock-robotics.org) installation to build these pocolog python bindings. 
Please add the [tools-pocolog_pybind](https://github.com/esa-prl/tools-pocolog_pybind) repository to your Rock installation in the folder `tools/pocolog_pybind`.

Subsequently, we can install the Python wrapper with:
```
pip install --user /home/user/rock/tools/pocolog_pybind
```

### 4. Generating a dataset

We use JSON config files to specify all settings and parameters of our experiments. 
All config files need to be placed in a subdirectory of `{DIR_TO_REPO}/configs`.
Subsequently, a dataset generation can be started by stating the path relative to the `{DIR_TO_REPO}` directory:

```
python dataset_generation.py configs/{CONFIG_NAME}.json
```

### 5. Learning

We use JSON config files to specify all settings and parameters of our experiments. 
All config files need to be placed in a subdirectory of `{DIR_TO_REPO}/configs`. 
The absolute or relative path to the dataset needs to be specified in the JSON config.
Subsequently, a learning experiment can be started by stating the path relative to the `{DIR_TO_REPO}` directory:

```
python main.py configs/{CONFIG_NAME}.json
```

### 6. Visualization

We immediately visualize the trained model after all tasks of an experiment (e.g. seed) have completed as specified in 
`experiment/visualization` section of the config. That said, you can also visualize an experiment manually. 
In this case, please specify the path to the `config.json` within the experiment log directory:
```
python visualization.py configs/{PATH_TO_EXPERIMENT_LOGDIR}/config.json
```

## Important notes

### Task Path
The main ingredient to path learning are what we call task paths. 
They consist of different "training regimes" applied sequentially to a machine learning model. 
In our implementation they create tasks from their configs and are used as iterators to yield these tasks.
### Task
A task consists of a set of dataloaders, which are created from a base dataset and transformers applied to it. 
Moreover it also specifies a loss function, loss aggregator and the batch size for the dataloader.
In our implementation tasks measure their own runtime by using the "with" keyword.

### Controller
The controller is a member of the learning classes. It is implemented as an iterator that yields epochs until convergence 
or a maximum number of epochs is reached.

### Experiment
The experiment contains all other objects introduced above. It manages device placement and logdir creation.

### Tenerife Dataset
We evaluate our methods on a dataset which was collected in June 2017 at the "Minas de San José" site in Tenerife using 
the Heavy Duty Planetary Rover (HDPR) as a Lunar Analogue. This dataset consists of images from three stereo cameras, one of which on a pan tilt unit, 
LiDAR and a Time of Flight (ToF) camera. It also includes an onboard Inertial Measurements Unit (IMU), an additional laser gyro for heading estimation
and Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) antenna for ground-truth absolute positioning. 
The dataset is stored in serialized [Rock pocolog logs](https://github.com/rock-core/tools-pocolog). 
We apply the GA SLAM [[2]](#2) technique on the raw data to extract occluded Digital Elevation Maps (DEMs).

### Canadian Planetary Emulation Terrain Energy-Aware Rover Navigation Dataset
We benchmark or methods on the enav-planetary dataset [[3]](#3).
Preparation of data:
1. Download rosbag with point clouds from: https://starslab.ca/enav-planetary-dataset/
2. Transform ROS PointCloud2 messages in topic `/omni_stitched_cloud` to PCD files: http://wiki.ros.org/pcl_ros#bag_to_pcd
   ```bash
   rosrun pcl_ros bag_to_pcd run1_clouds_only.bag /omni_stitched_cloud ./run1
   ```
3. Voxelize point clouds to `grid_map` ROS messages with: https://github.com/ANYbotics/grid_map/blob/master/grid_map_pcl/README.md

## Citations
<a id="1">[1]</a> Barnes, Connelly, et al. 
"PatchMatch: A randomized correspondence algorithm for structural image editing." 
ACM Trans. Graph. 28.3 (2009): 24.

<a id="2">[2]</a> Geromichalos, Dimitrios, et al. "SLAM for autonomous planetary rovers with global localization." 
Journal of Field Robotics 37.5 (2020): 830-847.

<a id="3">[3]</a> Lamarre, Olivier, et al. 
"The canadian planetary emulation terrain energy-aware rover navigation dataset." 
The International Journal of Robotics Research 39.6 (2020): 641-650.


